So let's take a look at the solutions
to these avoiding mutation exercises.
Again, they are in a Fork notebook,
you can find by clicking that Fork link
at the top of the page of the exercise.
So in this solved version, and again,
plenty of ways to implement these.
The main things you wanna
make sure that you're doing
are not using any of those
mutating array methods.
You might find that you wanna use some
of the non mutating array methods to
implement some of these.
But you can also get creative and use
other things, like perhaps you could use,
spread syntax, this dot, dot to implement
this first one, the push function.
So the push function is gonna
replace that array.push method,
where instead of array.push and
then the element being passed in,
which is gonna mess with the original
array, we're gonna take a push function
that's gonna take an element and
the array to put it on too.
And then we could use the spread
syntax to take everything out of
the original array into a new
array that I'm just creating with
this bracket syntax here, and
then add on the new element.
So that's one way we could do this.
But again, your mileage may vary,
there are plenty of valid solutions
to implement this non mutating push.
Just make sure you're not adding anything
on to the original array in place.
And we're checking for
that in these little titles.
How about the update function?
So this is gonna be a new
function that replaces
JavaScript built-in mutating
index assignment here.
So we wanna replace a single value
in the array at a particular index,
but we don't want to change it in place,
we wanna leave the array unchanged.
So we can define an update function
which takes in the index and
the value that you wanna put there and
the original array.
And in this case, I'm using some non
mutating array methods, slice and concat.
Which again, if we really want to force
ourselves to write code the way we
probably would in a pure functional
language, we could create
function versions of these, kind of wrap
those non mutating methods in a function
signature that gives me a little
bit more of a functional style.
But by this point, I think we've
gotten a lot of practice on that.
So just to make things easier for
ourselves,
we can use a chain of these methods.
So we can first slice off everything
before the index that I wanna
replace in the array.
We can concatenate that with a new
little array with the value that
I wanna put in at that index, and
then concatenate that with the slice of
the rest of the array after that index.
And what we've got here with this chain
of methods is actually something also
a little bit pipelining, right?
And this is something that we are used to
doing perhaps in functional, excuse me.
This is something that we're perhaps used
to doing in JavaScript is chaining methods
together.
Where we can take the output of,
again, this non mutating slice operation,
and
chain that into the concat operation.
So we're calling concat on
the new array return there.
So again, it's a similar vibe of
inputs coming into one function, and
then those outputs going into the next
function, and so on, and so forth.
It's just that here,
we're cheating a little bit and
using that more regular JavaScript syntax.
So challenge to the reader at home is
to create some of those more functional
style wrappers around some of
these operations like slice and
concat which even though the built-in
JavaScript methods are not mutating.
If we really wanna force ourselves
to think about functions first,
we could try to do that without
using the dot method notation.
And then the pop function again,
which is to replace
the mutating myraid pop.
We can use the slice function for
example, excuse me.
We can use the slice method which again
does not mutate the original array,
and so we can slice off everything up to
the next to last element in the array.
But again, if you can implement a slice
function that is going to allow us to get
into more of that functional API function
calls as the way that we write our code,
the style of syntax that we use
as opposed to this dot method.
That's again, another little challenge
that you can try to force yourself
to do to complete this in a way that does
not involve this little period here.
And then of course,
there are lots of other array methods
that we could create similarly, we could
create non mutating functions to sort of
represent the equivalent operations of.
But again, that'll be left as sort of
an exercise for you to stretch mind, or
if you wanna come back to this
in a few days or few weeks and
try that that out, perhaps to just
keep that muscle memory going.
Remember the brain is a muscle,
you gotta use it, and
if you wanna turn it into a super strong
and powerful functional programmer,
you got to use it in a functional style,
and
really force yourself to eat
your functional vegetables.
Even if the mutating regular JavaScript
way of working with things, perhaps comes
a little bit more naturally or
is a little bit more what you're used to.
The immutable data
structures example is here.
Again, we'll just let you all kind
of digest that on your own time, but
I would love to know what
differences did people notice?
Where there are differences in
the two libraries which have a very
different way of working with these
immutable data structures, right?
Like for example, in immutable JS,
we don't even call them arrays,
we call them lists.
For example, there's like a new word
to learn and maps instead of objects.
Whereas in MRI, we're working with more
typical looking regular JavaScript things.
But we're using this sort of
strange produce function with
these little draft call backs
to create new versions.
And I'll let you all dig
into exactly how it works.
But after having just a few minutes to
glance at it, would anybody like to share
some of their thoughts on differences they
noticed or some of their preferences?
>> The MRI library kind of looks more like
the JavaScript we already used to, right?
Sort of kinda looks more like using
a regular ES6 Map Reduce function.
I will just have instead
of Array prototype,
whenever you now have different options,
for
us immutable GS can look something
like it something entirely new to me.
>> Yeah, so what I heard is that the MRI
library looks a little bit more like
regular JavaScript, which indeed is we're
working with the same old JavaScript
arrays and things like that.
Whereas in immutable JS,
we have some new stuff to learn,
like lists and maps, and
some new methods like set,
and size, and get things like that.
And so I believe that one of the
objectives of MRI was to do exactly that
to make it so that functional programmers
working with immutable data in
JavaScript didn't need
to learn any new API's.
So that they could basically work with
the features of the language that
they're used to.
And in fact in other cases,
we could actually just
kind of destructor this produce
function out of the MRI object.
I think it's the default value
exported by this library is actually
the function itself.
And then we don't even have this MRI dot,
and we can just work with this
produce function to produce new versions
of these JavaScript objects and
arrays without mutating
any of them in place.
So that is certainly a convenient thing.
However, I think immutable maybe has been
around a tiny bit longer, so there may be
some people out there who are already
a little bit more used to working with it.
It comes from, I believe the same
team that created React at Facebook.
So there might be some overlap between
the React programming community and
the immutable users.
So if you're perhaps more
comfortable with that world,
there might be reasons to use it there.
What do we think?
Are we interested in maybe
trying some of these out,
taking a closer look at the docs,
trying them out in our own code,
seeing if we can really force
ourselves to never mutate data?
What is the benefit of using
these data structures like these
libraries instead of using
the built-in features of JavaScript
that allow us to kind of make
sure that data can't be changed.
For example, if I'm using a const
with a string, for example, so
that no one can ever change the value of
that variable that's holding that string,
or if I'm using object.freeze
to lock in a particular object.
And so that is where that efficiency
issue that we ran into with copying and
copying, and copying!
JavaScript by default,
by its nature does not have these this
kind of structural sharing data
structures that allow us to
really efficiently make lots of
copies of big data structures.
And so depending on what you're doing,
if you're just working with
little single values or
perhaps very simple data structures, and
not doing a tonne of transformations.
You might not run into
that efficiency problem,
you might not run into
performance problems.
And so you might be totally happy
working with those built-in JavaScript
features that make sure that
nothing is gonna change.
However, if you're doing some really big
operations, you have to have some really
big data structures that require
lots of updates of long arrays,
and things like that.
You might find that the efficiency
improvements afforded by these libraries
that use these techniques of
persistent data structures and
immutable data structures might come
in handy, especially when we're
working on in situations where
performance is more of an issue.
Yes, once again, we have not had a ton of
time to dive into the world of immutable
data structures, but
this is an area of functional programming
that I think is super fascinating.
And so I also have a talk linked at
the bottom here about how immutable data
structures work in detail and
why they're more efficient.
So if you wanna dive in more and
understand a little bit
more about how trees and
sharing make all of this efficiency
possible, you can check that out.
And there's also going to be lots of
resources linked where you can read tons
more about how these very fancy,
very interesting, very exciting, and
really performant data structures work.
Are gonna be listed in the resources
at the end of the workshop.
Did these libraries allow us to work with
kind of deeply nested data structures,
so that when I create an immutable
version of let's say, an array which has
other arrays in it, or an object which
has other objects as values in it.
Will it kind of recursively make sure to
make everything all
the way down immutable?
That is a great question.
Since I'm not a core maintainer or
power user of either of these libraries,
I would probably say we should definitely
check with their documentation
to find out how they handle
those nested data structures.
But my gut understanding is yes,
they will help you do that,
so that you can, like let's say make
an immutable list out of a nested list and
still have the deeper nested
lists also be locked in place.
However, don't quote me on that,
go to the source, and check out the docs.
They're linked in here and
make sure that is something
that these libraries implement.
And there are tons of other libraries
out there that do something similar.
So again, you might wanna look around
a little bit, you can search for
other immutable data structures
libraries in JavaScript.
Or perhaps if you program in other
languages too, you can look and
see what libraries exist for immutable or
persistent data structures
in that language.
For example, there's also one for
Python, at least one that I know of, and
things like that.
And always make sure that you dig into
those docs to understand what's happening,
to understand all the API, and the
examples that they'll give you in the docs
to see what happens when I'm working with,
let's say, a deeply nested data structure.
That's a great question.